## General Info

Steam Sky is an open source roguelike with a steampunk setting. You are the
commander of a flying ship, as leader you will be traveling across floating
bases, engaging in combat, trading goods etc. There is no mandatory ending
to the game, you may freely play until your character dies. The game is
currently in constant development, but is in a playable state. Steam Sky is
available for Linux and Windows 64 bit platforms.

## Game versions
There are currently 2 versions of the game:
- 5.0.x: "stable" version of game. This version will receive bug fixes but
  no new features. Source code for this version is in the *5.0* branch.
- 5.x: "development" version of game, future version 6.0. This is where
  game feature updates happen. Due to new features, save compatibility
  will typically break between releases. Use this version at your own risk.
  Source code for this version is in the *master* branch. **This** version.

## Build game from sources

To build(works on Linux and Windows too) you need:

* compiler - GCC with enabled Ada support or (best option) GNAT from:

  https://www.adacore.com/download/

  It is recommended that you use GNAT GPL 2019 to compile the game on Linux.
  Game does not work with old compilers (like GCC 4.9) since it
  lacks full support for Ada 2012

* XmlAda - if you use GNAT from AdaCore it is included in package. In other
  situation, you may need to download it from:

  https://github.com/AdaCore/xmlada

* Tcl/Tk library. Should be available in every Linux distribution. For
  Windows it is recommended to use MagicSplat version:

  https://www.magicsplat.com/tcl-installer/index.html

* TASHY library with included binding to Tk and TkLib. You can get it from:

   https://github.com/thindil/tashy

   **Important:** To build this version of Steam Sky you will need the 8.6.9
   version of the library or above. Earlier versions will not work due to lack
   of some bindings.

If you have all the required packages, navigate to the main directory(where
this file is) to compile:

* Easiest way to compile game is use Gnat Programming Studio included in GNAT.
  Just run GPS, select *steamsky.gpr* as a project file and select the option
  `Build All`.

* If you prefer using console: In the main source code directory type `gprbuild`
  for debug mode build or for release mode: `gprbuild -XMode=release`. If you
  have installed [Bob](https://github.com/thindil/bob) you can type `bob debug`
  for build in debug mode or `bob release` to prepare release for the program.
  If you want to only build release version of the game, use only `gprbuild -XMode=release`
  command.

### Build unit tests

Navigate to `tests/driver` directory from the main directory (where this
file is):

* From console: type `gprbuild -P test_driver.gpr`

Or if you have [Bob](https://github.com/thindil/bob) installed, type `bob tests 1`.
It will also run tests once.

## Generating code documentation

To generate (or regenerate) code documentation, you need [ROBODoc](https://rfsber.home.xs4all.nl/Robo/).
If you have it, in main program directory (where this file is) enter terminal
command: `others/generatedocs.tcl`. For more information about this script,
please look [here](https://github.com/thindil/roboada#generatedocspy). This
version of script have set all default settings for Hunter code. If you have
[Bob](https://github.com/thindil/bob) installed, you can type `bob docs`.

## Running Steam Sky

### Linux
If you use the AppImage version, you don't need any additional
libraries. Just run it as any AppImage file. For more information about AppImage
file usage, see:

https://docs.appimage.org/user-guide/run-appimages.html

When you trying to run builds generated by yourself, use binary file
`steamsky` in `bin` directory.

### Windows
If you compiled the game or downloaded the binaries just clicking on
`steamsky.exe` in the `bin` directory should run it.

### Libraries needed to run the game

Additionally, the game requires a few more libraries to run:

* TkLib. Included in MagicSplat version for Windows, on Linux should
  be available in all mayor distributions.

* Tk extension *tksvg*. You can get it from:

   https://github.com/auriocus/tksvg

### Starting parameters
You can specify the game directories through command-line parameters.
Possible options are:

* --datadir=[directory] This is where the game data files are kept.
   Example: `./steamsky --datadir=/home/user/game/tmp`.
   Default value is *data/*

* --savedir=[directory] This is where savegames and logs are kept.
   The Game must have write permission to this directory.
   Example: `./steamsky --savedir=/home/user/.saves`.
   Default value is *data/saves/*

* --docdir=[directory] This is where the game documentation is.
   Example `./steamsky --docdir=/usr/share/steamsky/doc`.
   Default value is *doc/*.

* --modsdir=[directory] This is where mods are loaded from.
   Example:`./steamsky --modsdir=/home/user/.mods`.
   Default value is *data/mods/*

* --themesdir=[directory] This is where custom themes are loaded from.
   Example: `./steamsky --themesdir=/home/user/.mods`.
   Default value is *data/themes/*

Of course, you can set all the parameters at once:
`./steamsky --datadir=somedir/ --savedir=otherdir/ --docdir=anotherdir/`

Paths to directories can be absolute or relative where file `steamsky` is. For
Windows, use `steamsky.exe` instead `./steamsky`. If you use AppImage version
of the game, you can also use all of this starting parameters.

### Testing versions

Here are available testing versions of the game. You can find them
in [Releases](https://github.com/thindil/steamsky/releases/tag/travis-dev-build).
To use them, first you must download normal release. Then, for Linux: inside
directory where the game is, type `./steamsky-x86_64.AppImage --appimage-extract`
to extract whole game to directory *squashfs-root*. And then move files
from the archive to the proper location. To run that version, enter
*squashfs-root* directory and type in console `./AppRun`. For Windows:
unzip files (replace existing) to the proper location where the game is installed.

* steamsky-dev-Windows-64.zip contains Windows 64-bit version of the game.

* steamsky-dev-Linux-64.tar.gz contains Linux 64-bit version of the game.

## Modding Support
For detailed information about modifying various game elements or debugging
game, see [MODDING.md](bin/doc/MODDING.md)

## Contributing to project
For detailed information about contributing to the project
(bug reporting, ideas propositions, code conduct, etc),
see [CONTRIBUTING.md](bin/doc/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Licenses
The game is made available under the [GPLv3](bin/doc/COPYING) license.

The XmlAda library distributed with the game are also under the GPLv3 license.

The Tashy library distributed with the game is under GPLv2 license with the
linking exception.

Tcl/Tk, Tklib and Tksvg libraries distributed with the game are under BSD-like license.

The Licensing for the fonts distributed with the game is as follows:

* Font Amarante is under SIL Open Font License: https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Amarante
* Font Awesome is under SIL Open Font License: https://fontawesome.com
* Font Rye is under Open Font License: https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Rye
* Font Hack Nerd Font is under MiT license: https://nerdfonts.com/
* Font Roboto is under Apache v2.0 license: https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Roboto


The changelog and a copy of the GPLv3 license can be found in the [doc](bin/doc) directory.


That's all for now, as usual, I have probably forgotten about something important ;)

Bartek thindil Jasicki
